agent/skills/skill-editor/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: skill-editor
description: Use when drafting or revising an agent skill spec in an environment that already has a general skill creator. Apply user-specific preferences to tighten triggers, reduce redundancy, keep scope safe, and keep the spec compact and consistent.
metadata:
  short-description: Refine skill specs
---


# Skill Editor

Refine an agent skill specification by applying user-specific preferences on top of an existing skill-creation workflow. Improve trigger precision, internal consistency, and compactness without expanding scope.

## Activation

Use this skill only when the task is to write, revise, or review an agent skill spec.

## Metadata First

* Put trigger conditions and the goal in the header metadata.
* Do not restate the trigger in the body.
* Keep the body focused on execution rules and constraints.

## Scope Control

* Default to localized edits unless a full rewrite is explicitly requested.
* Avoid adding new features, categories, or policies not implied by the user’s request.
* If information is missing, make safe progress and ask only the smallest clarification needed to avoid incorrect constraints.

## Redundancy Control

* Remove repeated statements across sections.
* Replace explanatory prose with concise definitions when possible.
* Keep examples minimal and only when they clarify an otherwise ambiguous rule.

## Neutral Examples

* Use generic examples that do not imply a specific organization, product, or domain.
* Examples should demonstrate the rule, not introduce new conventions.

## Consistency Checks

Before finalizing a spec, ensure:

* Metadata and body have distinct roles and do not duplicate content.
* Terms are used consistently and defined once.
* Rules do not conflict; when tradeoffs exist, the priority is explicit.
* Output expectations are clear and bounded.

Commit message:

feat(agent-skills): optimize skill-editor spec structure

agent/skills/skill-editor/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: skill-editor
description: Use when asked to draft, revise, or review an agent skill specification to make it trigger correctly from frontmatter and read as a compact, non-redundant, internally consistent execution guide.
---

# Skill Editor

## Layers

A skill spec has two layers with different load timing and responsibilities:

- **Frontmatter** is read early and steers discovery and routing.
- **Body** is read later and steers task execution.

Layer contract:

- Trigger wording belongs to frontmatter.
- Execution guidance belongs to the body.
- The two layers must not overlap.

## Authoring Rules

### Frontmatter

- Write for correct routing. Use user-intent phrasing, common request wording, and the intended task family.
- Prefer specific triggers over broad capability claims that would overlap with other skills.
- Ensure frontmatter is sufficient for routing without reading the body.

### Body

- Write the body as rules, constraints, and checklists.
- Establish a minimal framework first, then fill it with content. Optimize for navigability and extensibility, not exhaustiveness.
- Remove restatement and narrative. Merge overlapping sections; keep each rule single-sourced.
- Use the smallest neutral example only to resolve ambiguity; do not introduce conventions through examples.

## Review Checklist

Before finalizing, confirm:

- **Routing**: Frontmatter alone is sufficient to decide when to use the skill.
- **Structure**: The body has a minimal framework that supports navigation and extension.
- **Redundancy**: Each rule appears once; sections are non-overlapping.
- **Terminology**: Terms are defined once and used consistently.
- **Conflicts**: Where tradeoffs exist, priority is explicit.
- **Verifiability**: Requirements are clear enough to check.
